---
title: "Slowing Down"
description: "Today I try to slow down and take breaks (4/100 of 100daystooffload)."
date: 2025-02-05
tags:
    - 100daystooffload
    - spirituality
    - rust
draft: false
---

It may sound like hyperbole, but I feel like [The Untethered Soul](link)
was life changing for me. I left my job back in August for personal reasons
and since then, while applying for jobs, I've gone through a mix of
self-discovery[^1] and change. Facing the frequent rejections of the job hunt
is not an easy place to be. Up until November I was able to really grind
through some of that pain and keep up my routine of finding jobs, applying for
jobs, and preparing for interviews, all while continuing the process of
building some applications for [fun](https://github.com/desertthunder/sonotabula).

What happened in November? Nothing major. I had interviewed with quite a few
places and gotten to later rounds of the interview process but found myself
getting rejected over and over and I think I just snapped. It didn't help that
my situation didn't change and with the approacing holidays, the job market
would likely slow down. I started to feel desperate and all I could think to do
was try to accept my situation. I'm an engineer. Acceptance is not an innate
skill I have. Everything is a problem to be solved. So I went to good old
Google, which is actually just me usually searching for "best books on *whatever* reddit." This led me to mental health and mindfulness subreddit
posts about acceptance and surrender and eventually grabbing a copy of Michael
A. Singer's [book](https://amzn.to/3WIy7j1).

I can't express how helpful his story has been for my psyche. He has had such
a unique set of life experiences, all book-ended by challenging situations in
which he chose to accept his circumstances, surrender, and go with the flow. He
made it through writing a thesis and a lawsuit successfully! It seemed like
magic. All he said was to surrender to the experience and let yourself
experience the feelings that come up. He demonstrates something Tara Brach
mentions in [Radical Acceptance](https://amzn.to/3CB8EBu) too. Acceptance
isn't about doing nothing. You still take action, but the context surrounding it is what changes[^2].

The experience that Singer describes of himself surrendering before writing is
one my dad experienced when he first came to the states. Both of these nerds
surrendered and allowed their minds to digest and synthesize information.
You never know what you'll find, and you can't force your mind to operate the
way you want it too with conscious will. This is the approach to writing these
posts and my code that I feel I must take. When I am able to surrender I'm able
to produce more work. Whether or not is useful or of any quality remains to be
seen[^3]. While powering through [iced](https://iced.rs), I started writing
a book in the [repo](https://github.com/stormlightlabs/ascdoc). It felt like an
idea that came out of nowhere but it feels right. The library is cool but it's
documentation is famously[^4] lacking, so why not just make something myself?

Thanks for reading.

[^1]: I'll have to post my notes about the book on my digital [garden](https://desertthunder.github.io/garden).
[^2]: This seems like a central theme of the FX adaptation of Shogun. I should
give the book a read. The show comes with the highest recommendation from me.
[^3]: Does it even matter? I mean, have you seen some of these HR and ATS tools?
If that seems petty, it is.
[^4]: I want to add that I mean no disrespect to the developer. Iced is
incredible and its important to focus on what you feel is right. The library is
good and he's honest about the docs so what more can you ask for?
