---
title: Trying
description: >
    In which Owais gets back into it.
date: 2025-09-07
tags:
    - 100daystooffload
draft: false
---

I created this file 7 months ago. It was originally a file labelled developer's log 0 because at the time I really
wanted to make developer logs in the vein of John Carmack. I still do but they go in a little notebook on my desk.
What's really more significant in my life dear reader, is that I continued my journey to find a new full-time gig,
but also worked on my company's projects quite a bit. There's not a lot to say on the full-time gig, other than
I don't understand why I'm reaching final rounds but not getting offers. I learned a while ago that speculating is
useless and all I can do is try to get some feedback and keep doing my best.

In the company department, I've had a lot of fun with [Volkara](https://volkara.stormlightlabs.org), a project that
made me (partially) embrace using LLMs while I work, and made me accept JavaScript as a part of my life. Volkara is
a local first web app made with SvelteKit Postgres (on the server AND browser - how cool is that??) for task, time, and life
management. There's a flutter mobile app in the works, limited mostly by my indecision around either migrating the
API to a language I like more (and turning the kit backend into a backend-for-frontend) or just sticking with what I've got.
I'll probably stick to kit.

I've also been working on some open source stuff. Today I started [beacon](https://github.com/stormlightlabs/beacon) for the
umpteenth time. Beacon is a Rust based LSP implementation and Hindley-Milner type system for Python. I've also been working
on [noteleaf](https://github.com/stormlightlabs/noteleaf), a *charm*ing Golang implementation of TaskWarrior and a "media queue"
to help me manage stuff I should watch through the terminal. These projects exist primarily for me to play with other tooling
and ideas, while also preventing me from burning out on Volkara. They don't prevent burnout from work, but that's hard for me
to get to because I really love engineering.

This is more of a stream of consciousness style post today. I just want to get back into the habit of putting my writing out there
again. It's been a long year but writing has historically helped calm my nerves.

Thanks for reading! If you're interested in checking out my work or hiring me, please reach out! I'd love to chat.
